Network Working Group                                          E. Horley
Request for Comments: XXXY                                     HexaBuild
Category: Informational                                       T. Coffeen
                                                               HexaBuild
                                                                 S. Hogg
                                                               HexaBuild
                                                             N. Buraglio
                                                 Energy Sciences Network
                                                                K. Myers
                                                           IP ArchiTechs
                                                             C. Cummings
                                                 Energy Sciences Network
                                                                R. White
                                                        Juniper Networks
                                                            <Month> 2021


                IPv6 Address Prefix Reserved for Lab

Status of this Memo

   This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does
   not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this
   memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2021).

Abstract

   To reduce the likelihood of addressing conflicts and confusion between lab deployments and non-lab (i.e., production) deployments, an IPv6 unicast address prefix is reserved for use in lab, proof-of-concept, and validation networks as well as for for any similar use case. This document describes the use of the IPv6 address prefix 0200::/7 as a prefix reserved for this purpose (repurposing the deprecated OSI NSAP-mapped prefix [RFC4548]).

1.  Introduction

Because the address architecture for IPv6 [1] does not explicitly define any prefixes allocated exclusively for lab use, the IPv6 address prefix 0200::/7 is reserved for this purpose. While lab deployments could potentially use IPv6 address prefixes typically assigned and configured in non-lab networks (e.g., GUA, ULA, unallocated ranges, etc.), the use of such addressing in lab environments may create addressing conflicts and operational confusion. Further, default address selection behavior [RFC6724] by end nodes may result in a depreferencing of such addresses and prevent lab deployments from accurately modeling their desired non-lab equivalents. This space SHOULD NOT be employed for addressing use cases which are already defined in other RFCs. For example, the current IPv6 documentation prefix of 2001:db8::/32 (and the proposed 3ffe::/16 [draft-reference]) are useable for documentation (and conversely, organizations are discouraged from using those prefixes in lab deployments). 
   
   
   Designing labs utilizing ULA fc00::/7 (RFC4193) is problematic
   due to the random global ID requirement preventing hierarchical 
   network prefix design possibilities.

   
   In cases where it is not feasible to utilize their existing global
   unicast address space for proof of concept, prototype, or labs this
   lab prefix can be used for this purpose. 




Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC XXXY         IPv6 Address Prefix Reserved for Lab       <Month> 2021

2.  New Lab IPv6 Address Prefix

   The prefix reserved for lab and testing purposes is 0200::/7.

3.  Operational Implications

   This lab prefix is seperate from the prefix used for RFC5180
   that is set aside for performance testing, and SHOULD not be used for
   RFC5180 validation purpose.
   
   This assignment implies that IPv6 network operators should add this
   address prefix to the list of non-routeable IPv6 address space, and
   if packet filters are deployed, then this address prefix should be
   added to packet filters.
   
   Because this address prefix has previously been used for the OSI
   NSAP-mapped prefix set in RFC4048 and RFC4548, and deprecated, 
   this address prefix is already limited in its usability.
   In addition, the address prefix was returned to IANA and is
   available to be marked for lab or other purposes.

   This is not a local-use address prefix, and the filters may be used
   in both local and public contexts.

4.  IANA Considerations

   IANA is to record the reservation of the IPv6 global unicast address
   prefix  0200::/7 as a lab-only prefix in the IPv6 address registry. 
   No end party is to be assigned this address.







Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC XXXY         IPv6 Address Prefix Reserved for Lab       <Month> 2021


5.  Security Considerations
 
   IPv6 addressing labs generally do not have any direct impact on
   Internet infrastructure security.

   However, the assignment of a new address space for lab purposes does
   mean, as indicated above, that these addresses SHOULD
   be added to any filters required by individual operators to prevent
   their use for globally routed destinations.

6.  Acknowledgements

   The authors acknowledge the work of Bob Hinden and Stephen Deering, 
   in authoring the protocol standard and the addressing architecture
   for IPv6.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

   [1]  Hinden, R. and S. Deering, "Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
        Addressing Architecture", RFC 3513, April 2003.

7.2.  Informative References

Do we need to reference these?:
   RFC5952 - A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text Representation
   RFC4548 - Internet Code Point (ICP) Assignments for NSAP Addresses
   RFC2544 - Benchmarking Methodology for Network Interconnect Devices
   RFC5180 - IPv6 Benchmarking Methodology for Network Interconnect Devices


Authors' Addresses

   Ed Horley
   HexaBuild

   EMail: ed@hexabuild.io


   Tom Coffeen
   HexaBuild

   EMail: tom@hexabuild.io


   Scott Hogg
   HexaBuild

   EMail: scott@hexabuild.io


   Nick Buraglio
   Energy Sciences Network

   EMail: buraglio@es.net


   Kevin Myers
   IP ArchiTechs

   EMail: kevin.myers@iparchitechs.com


   Chris Cummings
   Energy Sciences Network

   EMail: chriscummings@es.net


   Russ White
   Juniper Networks

   EMail: russ@riw.us
