Network Working Group                                          E. Horley
Request for Comments: XXXY                                     HexaBuild
Category: Informational
                                                                Kevin
                                                                Chris
                                                                
                                                                April 2022


                Lack of NAT in IPv6 is an issue for Enterprise IPv6 Adoption

Status of this Memo

   This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does
   not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this
   memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2022).

Abstract
Lack of NAT is slowing IPv6 adoption. These are real world scenarios that Enterprises
must address to successfully adopt IPv6. This document outlines the problems, issues,
and potential solutions. The goal is the help increase the adoption of IPv6 in Enterprise.


1.  Introduction
<Walk through the document>
While we advocate for GUA IPv6 end to end addressing where it is possible. If we want IPv6
Enterprise deployment, we need to provide the tools and architecture options to these organization.

We are taking the position that SOME IPv6 is better than NO IPv6 deployed. We can iterate on the design
and the deployment over time but initial adoption is too important right now.



Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC XXXX         NAT in IPv6      April 2022

2.  Defining NAT in Enterprise IPv6 problem space

2.1 Architect and Design drivers for Enterprise:
a. Regulatory issues FIPS, HIPAA, NIST, PCI/DSS, and others
b. Need solution for SD-WAN with multiple PA space (overlay/underlay)
c. Need solution for retail guest/partner/IoT
d. Cloud service providers having reusable space for dual-stack networks to NAT outbound to public IPv6
e. Container and Kubernetes able to leverage reusable space (simply deployment)
f. Lab and development environments

2.2 Operational drivers for Enterprise:
a. Default state is fail closed (need address space that does NOT route to the DFZ)
b. Need solution for SD-WAN with multiple PA space (overlay/underlay)
c. Need address space for underlay solution to isolate for security reasons (avoiding accidental leak or firewall holes)
d. DDOS rapid move address space/services and mapping
e. Cloud service providers having reusable space for dual-stack networks to NAT outbound to public IPv6
f. Lab and development environments
g. Mobile prefix (hot spot) NAT to Route into network - LTE
h. Reduce number of /48 prefixes in the DFZ
i. Reduce failover time between Service Providers with PA prefixes


3.  Operational Implications

3.1 Operational enterprise issues that will drive this requirement:
a. Reduce accidental exposure of routing or planned "non" routable GUA making it into the DFZ
b. Not able to match existing IPv4 operational deployment and design
c. SD-WAN and private routing options (overlay/underlay)
d. Regulator says no GUA space for a service
e. Lack of repeatability for lab and automation scaling
f. Mismatched GUA prefixes from PA providers (why NPTv6 doesn't work for all situations)
g. Scanning and tracking hosts
h. Tracking hosts will continue to be as difficult with IPv4
i. Logging and event cooralation will continue to be an issue
j. Accidents happen - have a safer default behavior then GUA <- this is the goal - fail closed


4.  Possible Solutions

4.1 Current options:
a. Use  PI Global Unicast Addresses everywhere
b. Run BGP with PI space in all remote sites that have multiple providers
c. Sites that have multiple providers but no PI space, use both PA prefixes
d. NPTv6 from PA to PI, assuming all the prefixes match
e. NAT66 from PI to PI or from PA to PI, overloading of IPv6 addresses?
f. SIIT 

4.2 Possible options:
a. Introduce new Prefix that is designated not routable in the DFZ
b. Introduce NAT66 as a standard (requires RFC) - will need to have overloading
c. Introduce fractional NPTv6 (partial or smaller groups of prefixes) /40 and /44 <- optionally split apart /48 or /64


5. Example Scenario
a. Retail POS
<write up> - Kevin

b. SD-WAN/Multi-Cloud networking (Multihomed w/ PA)
A common deployment for (small business all the way up to enterprise) SD-WAN is to have multiple Internet providers (2 or more) for each site location. The public IPv4 addresses that are provided are only used for tunnel creation (from the SD-WAN appliance to the head end or other branch SW-WAN appliances). It is also used to NAT for Internet traffic from devices at are at that site location. RFC 1918 private address space is utilized for the site location with routing to other sites utilizing a VPN overlay with routing entries for the private address space run by the entity. There is no corresponding IPv6 design that would work for dual-stack situations due to the ULA problem described in https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-buraglio-v6ops-ula-01.html which leaves many entities without a good network design option available. If they have Provider Independent (PI) IPv6 address space they can simple run PI locally and NPTv6 or NAT66 to each of the provided PA IPv6 address spaces. For organizations that do not have PI space, they have no equivalent design option that will work for them.

c. Small/Medium branch office
<write up> - Chris

d. Banking ATM and Finance
<write up> - Kevin

e. Energy/Utility - isolation and security
<write up> - Chris

f. Government/Military - security
<write up> - Kevin

g. Medical - security and regulatory
Many medical and lab facilities that support medical research have strict compliance and security controls. Often these controls require that the systems not have direct Internet access, run in an isolated fashion for the majority of their useable lifetime and be maintained in a strict methodology. This could be for reasons of reproducing lab or data in a given environment, for confidential data compliance or for national security concerns. The default method to secure these environments is to run RFC 1918 private address space and to not provide any translation (NAT) capabilities for those specific address ranges. This is considered safe as it is a fail closed environment. This prevents these systems from being able to access services external to their specific network environment. As these environments move to dual-stack, ULA may solve the issue of "fail closed" requirement but still suffers from the ULA dual-stack problem described in https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-buraglio-v6ops-ula-01.html which means no functional IPv6 with a ULA deployment. To allow these environments to run dual-stack but not run a GUA prefix, some other IPv6 address prefix option will be required to match these design requirements.


6.  IANA Considerations
Potentially 
<txt>







Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC XXXX         NAT in IPv6      April 2022


5.  Security Considerations
 
<txt>

6.  Acknowledgements

<txt>

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

   [1]  ?
   [2]  ?

7.2.  Informative References

   [3]  <author>



Authors' Addresses
   Ed Horley
   HexaBuild
   
   EMail: ed@hexabuild.io
   
   
   Chris Cummings
   Energy Sciences Network

   EMail: cummings@es.net


   Kevin Myers
   IP Architechs

   EMail: kevin.myers@iparchitechs.com





