Network Working Group                                          E. Horley
Request for Comments: XXXX                                    T. Coffeen
Category: Informational                                          S. Hogg
                                                               HexaBuild
                                                             N. Buraglio
                                                 Energy Sciences Network
                                                                K. Myers
                                                           IP ArchiTechs
                                                             C. Cummings
                                                 Energy Sciences Network
                                                                R. White
                                                             <company>
                                                            <Month> 2021


    Expanding the IPv6 Address Prefix Reserved for Documentation

Status of this Memo

   This memo provides information for the Internet community.  It does
   not specify an Internet standard of any kind.  Distribution of this
   memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2021).

Abstract

   To reduce the likelihood of conflict and confusion when relating
   documented examples to deployed systems, an IPv6 unicast address
   prefix is reserved for use in examples in RFCs, books, documentation,
   and the like.  This document adds an additional prefix to the
   existing prefix reserved in [RFC3849]
   (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3849) of 2001:db8::/32. The document
   describes the use of the IPv6 address prefix 3ffe::/16
   (formerly 6bone) as a reserved prefix for use in documentation.

1.  Introduction

   The address architecture for IPv6 [1] does not specifically allocate
   an IPv6 address prefix for use for documentation purposes.
   The current IPv6 documentation prefix of 2001:db8::/32 defined in 
   RFC3849 (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3849) is not large enough for
   many design, lab, and documentation requirements. An example of this
   limitation is apparent when doumenting a multi-provder ISP network 
   address plan. An additional, larger allocation would help address 
   these needs.




Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 1]

RFC XXXX         Additional IPv6 Documentation Address      <Month> 2021

2.  Expanded Documentation IPv6 Address Prefix

   The documentation prefix described in this memo can also be used to
   generate multicast addresses for documentation, using the Unicast
   prefix-based proposal [2].  Representing other kinds of multicast
   addresses in documentation is outside the scope of this memo.

   The additional prefix allocated for documentation purposes is
   3ffe::/16.

3.  Operational Implications

   This assignment implies that IPv6 network operators should add this
   address prefix to the list of non-routeable, bogon IPv6 address space, and
   if packet filters are deployed, this address prefix should be
   added to packet filters intended to prevent public routing of such address
   space.

   Because this address prefix has previously been used for the 6bone,
   and subsequently the 6bone was shutdown, this address prefix is
   already listed in many non-routeable tables, filters and lists. It
   was also depreferred in RFC6724
   (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6724) which limits its usability.
   In addition, the address prefix was returned to IANA and is
   available to be marked for documentation purposes.

   This is not a local-use address prefix, and the filters may be used
   in both local and public contexts.

4.  IANA Considerations

   IANA is to record the allocation of the IPv6 global unicast address
   prefix  3ffe::/16 as a documentation-only prefix in the IPv6
   address registry.  No end party is to be assigned this address.







Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 2]

RFC XXXX         Additional IPv6 Documentation Address      <Month> 2021


5.  Security Considerations

   IPv6 addressing documents do not have any direct impact on Internet
   infrastructure security.

6.  Acknowledgements

   The authors acknowledge the work of Geoff Huston, assisted by
   Anne Lord, and Philip Smith, in authoring the previous proposal for
   the IPv6 documentation prefix.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

   [1]  Hinden, R. and S. Deering, "Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
        Addressing Architecture", RFC 3513, April 2003.

7.2.  Informative References

   [2]  Haberman, B. and D. Thaler, "Unicast-Prefix-based IPv6 Multicast
        Addresses", RFC 3306, August 2002.

Authors' Addresses

   Ed Horley
   HexaBuild

   EMail: ed@hexabuild.io


   Tom Coffeen
   HexaBuild

   EMail: tom@hexabuild.io


   Scott Hogg
   HexaBuild

   EMail: scott@hexabuild.io


   Nick Buraglio
   Energy Sciences Network

   EMail: buraglio@es.net


   Kevin Myers
   IP ArchiTechs

   EMail: kevin.myers@iparchitechs.com


   Chris Cummings
   Energy Sciences Network

   EMail: chriscummings@es.net


   Russ White
   <company>

   EMail: russ@riw.us








Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 3]

RFC XXXX         Additional IPv6 Documentation Address      <Month> 2021


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2021).  This document is subject
   to the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and
   except as set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
   ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
   INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
   INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at ietf-
   ipr@ietf.org.

Acknowledgement

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.









Horley, et al.               Informational                      [Page 4]
